# 20210607 - MIT 6.824  Lecture 5 Raft Part 2

## Video

[Youtube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R2-9bsKmEbo&feature=youtu.be)


## Raft Election

in Raft, there will always be one and only one leader.

there will be an election timeout for every follower, the follower will reset the timeout when it receives a heartbeat or append entry.  

once a follower missing heartbeat from leader or didn't receive append entries after the time goes off, the follower will then start an election.

the follower will first increase the current term number, vote for himself and contact other followers to vote for him

### follower will reject new logs which has smaller term number

suppose one case, the old leader is term 10, and the new leader is term 11. 

Once the client connect to the old leader, the old leader will send append entry(log) to its follower's, i.e. the new leader. 

As soon as the new leader receive the new entry, it will find that the entry's term number(10) is smaller than its current term number(11), it will then response to the old leader that it can not accept the entry because of the term number. 

Once the old leader get the response, it will know that current term number is larger than its own number, then it will degrade from leader to follower.


### challenge: split votes

we use random election timeout to avoid split votes, namely that two followers get same votes. the timeouts are randomized so that each followers' vote start time will not be the same.

### randomized election time

election time should be short enough to make downtime short



## logs may diverge