# D023 Raft(Extended) (1/6)
## 1. Introduction

### Features
- Strong leader
    -  logs only flow from the leade rto other servers.
    - simplifies the management of the replicated log
- Randomized Leader Election

### Overiew
- Section 2: Replicated state machine problem
- Section 3: Strengths and weaknesses of Paxos
- Section 4: General approach to understandability
- Section 5-8: Raft concensus algorithm
- Section 9: Evaluates raft

## 2. Replicated state machine
Concensus algorithms arise in this context, where state machines on a collection of servers compute identical copies of the same state and can continue even if some of the servers are down.

The consensus module on module on a server receives commands from clients and adds them to its log. It communicates with the concensus modules on other servers to ensure that every log eventually contains the same requests in the same order, even if some servers fail.

### Properties of Consensus Algorithms
1. safety against packest loss, duplication, and reordering
2. available as long as the majority of the servers can communicate with each other and with clients.
3. do not depend on timing to exure the consistency.


## 3. What's wrong with Paxos?
1. Paxos has been proven to facilitate a series of decisions such as a log(multi-Paxos)
2. But it has two major drawbacks
    1. extremely difficult to understand
    2. does not provide a stable foundation for building practical implementations
3. Paxos uses symmetric peer-to-peer approach, which is low at efficiency.

For the above reasons, Paxos is not good for education and implementation.


## 4. Designing for understandability
The design of raft takes understandability asd the most important factor, meanwhile, providing easy implementation approaches for developers.

Wherever possbile, the problems are divided into pieces and explained individually. For example, the leader election, log replication, safety and membership changes are separated.

