## Go at Google: Language Design in the Service of Software Engineering


Go is designed for soft engineering rather than programming language study. 

Google gives birth to go according to its previous experiences in compiling C, Python and Java. When a program becomes large, problems like circular dependencies and multiple includes occur and this significantly increases the build time. Go handles this problem by making duplicate includes errors.

Go syntax is more like Pascal style, which makes type after variables in declarations, this makes it easy to parse. Variables in go starting with uppercase letters are exported. No two functions can have the same name, this also makes the compiler more efficient. There are more improvements in semantic for performance.

In terms of concurrency. Go gets the idea from DCP, which has channel as its first class. In go sharing is legal and passing a pointer over a channel is legal.

Go implements garbage collection to make the concurrency much more easier. Meanwhile, go limits allocation by having the same struct in the same area of memory, which further guarantees efficiency.

Instead of having inheritance, go adopts composition, which uses interface rather than class inheritance. It avoids the misuse of inheritance.

Error handling is not imported in GoLang. Instead, it implements the `error` interface to return errors.

`gofix` and `gofmt` are two tools that formats go code so that the code is easy to read and debug.

The use of Go has made a huge difference in software engieering in Google as well as many other companies and it will continue to make an impact to the world of software.