# # Alex Xu: CH 8 DESIGN A URL SHORTENER

## Problem statement
- Functional requirement:
	- 100 million URLs are generated per day.
	- The shortened URL should be as short as possible.
	- Shortened URL can be a combination of numbers (0-9) and characters (a-z, A- Z).
- Non-functional requirement
	- 100 million URLs are generated per day.
	- write: 100 million / 24 /3600 = 1160 / sec
	- read: read operation : write operation is 10:1 => 1160 * 10 = 11.6k / sec
	- \# of records: 10 years => 100 m * 365 * 10 = 365 b records.
	- URL length: 100
	- storage 365 b * 100 b  = 36.5 T

## High-Level Design
API Endpoints
- To create a new short URL.
	- POST api/v1/data/shorten
	- request parameter: {longUrl: longURLString}
	- return shortURL
- URL redirecting.
	- GET api/v1/shortUrl
	- Return longURL for HTTP redirection

## Design Deep Dive
Data model
- The simplified version of the table contains 3 columns: id, shortURL, longURL.

Hash function
- Hash function is used to hash a long URL to a short URL, also known as hashValue.
- Options
	- Hash + collision resolution
		- Recursively append a new predefined string until no more collision is discovered.
	- Base 62 conversion

Hash value length
- [0-9, a-z, A-Z] => 10 + 26 + 26 = 62 possible characters. n >= 7 such that 62^n ≥ 365 b.

URL shortening deep dive
- longURL is the input.
- The system checks if the longURL is in the database.
	- bloom filter
- If it is, it means the longURL was converted to shortURL before. In this case, fetch the shortURL from the database and return it to the client.
- If not, the longURL is new. A new unique ID (primary key) Is generated by the unique ID generator.
- Convert the ID to shortURL with base 62 conversion.
- Create a new database row with the ID, shortURL, and longURL.

URL redirecting deep dive
- A user clicks a short URL link: https://tinyurl.com/zn9edcu
- The load balancer forwards the request to web servers.
- If a shortURL is already in the cache, return the longURL directly.
- If a shortURL is not in the cache, fetch the longURL from the database. If it is not in the database, it is likely a user entered an invalid shortURL.
- The longURL is returned to the user.
