# 0525 Lecture 4: Primary-Backup Replication(1/2)
## Overview
- Failures
- Challenge
- 2 approcehes
    - State transfer
    - replicated state machine
- case study: vm-ft


## Failures
- fail-stop failures
- logic bugs, configuration error
- malicious
- maybe: earthquake(datacenters on different continents)

## Challenge
- has primary-failed?
    - avoid split-brain system
- keep primary backup in sync
    - apply changes in order
    - deal with non-determinism
- failover

## Two approaches
- State Transfer: send state
- Replicate State Machine(RSM): send operations


### Levels of operations to replicate
- application-level opertaions: file append, replicate
- machine-level: transparent

## Summary
In this part, the professor talks about the typical reasons to cause machines failures, for example, fail-stop, logical bugs or configurations errors, etc. The major challenge of solving this issue is that, even we have backup machines in place, it is hard know if the primary machine fails. And another problem is how we keep the backup synchronized with the primary. There are typically two approach, State Transfer and Replicate State Machine(RSM). In the case of RSM, there might be some undetermistic operations, which have to be converted to deterministics ones. Meanwhile, the level in which the operations should be replicated is a concern, the application-level one is adopted by GFS and machine-level one is adopted by VMware(VM-FT). As I can recall in the paper VM-FT, machine-level one with replicate state machine affects the primary the least while achieving taking over on failure with shared-state on disk.