# MIT 6.824: Distributed Systems Lecture 1
## Why Distributed System?
1. Connect physically seperated machines
2. Increase capacity
3. Tolerate faults
4. Achieve secrity via isolation


## Historical Context
- local aera networks: DNS + email - AFS (1980s)
- Datacenters, big websites(1990s)
    - web search, shopping
- Cloud compuing(2000s


## Challenges
- Many concurrent parts
- must be deal with partial failure
- trick trelize the performance benefits

## Why 6.823
- hard problems but powerful solutions
- used in real world
- activate area of research
- handson


## Course Structure
- Lectures: big ideas
- Papers: case study
- labs
    - map reduce
    - replication use Raft
    - replicated key/value service
    - shared k/v services
- optional project


## Focus: Infrastructure
- Storage
- Computation
- Communication 6.829
- RPC



## Main topics 
- Fault tolerance
    - availability
    - replication
    - recoverability
    - logging overtransactions
    - durable storage
- Consistency: does `get()` returns the value of the last `put()`?
- Performance
    - throughput
    - tail latency
    
- Implementation



## MapReduce
- Context: Google computations on multi-hours of terabytes hours
- Goal: easy for non-experts
- Approach
    - Map + Reduce => Sequential Code
    - MR deals with distribution

## Fault Tolerance 
Coordinator returns map reduce

1. Cam map run twice?
Yes. Functional: the result is deterministic.

2. Can reduce run twice?
Yes. Atomic rename of intermediate results.


### Other failures
- Coordinator fail: untolerable
- Slow workers: stragglers, use backup tasks


### Conclusion
This is the first lecture of the course and is more about the course structure and meanwhile, instroduces the MapReduce paper. It includes a detailed analysis about the relationship between the mappers, coordinator and reducer and makes my understanding of the whole structure better. The professor mentions [MIT 6.829](http://web.mit.edu/6.829/www/currentsemester/lectures_gen.html) as well, the course video is not available, but there are a lot of papers in the course page. I think I may learn this later to have a better overview.